              Realtime Fraud Detection on CreditCard Dataset

Abstract: The financial industries and services that required financial transactions are suffering from fraud
related loss. The challenge of financial industry is to development of realtime claim assessment and improve
the accuracy of the fraud detection. The machine learning  approach to fraud detection has got popularity in
recent years and industry are moving from rule-based approach to ML-based approach.

In this project work, We will development a realtime time machine learning model that will identify a transactions
is fraud or not and improve accuracy of fraud detection.


Introduction: In this work we will preprocess the dataset. We will do features selections and features extraction
by PCA. We will train machine learning models(SVM, Random Forests, K-nearest, Voting-classifier) with best
parameters and will selection best model best performance. Best Model will be deployed as REST Service.

Dataset: transactions.txt
Total number of rows: 641,914
Total number of columns: 29

Dataset preparation and preprocessing:
  Our dataset has missing values we will clean up data. We will first clean data then we will convert categorical data
  to numeric. We scaled data to standard level so that it can feed into model We will select importance features form
  the dataset using RandomForestRegressor. Using PCA or t-SNE we will visualize dataset


FlowChart:
      Raw data --> Clean up --> convertCategorialToNumeric -->  scaled standard --> Select important features --> visualize dataset
      --> splitting data into train, validation and test set --> fit models --> validate models ->  evaluate model on test sets
      --> find model with best accuracy --> deploy model as REST Service


Dataset splitting:
   Clean dataset will be partition into tree subsets - train, test  and validation sets.

Modeling:
   Train different models and define which one provides the most accurate prediction.
   we will train each model on data . we will cross validate model  and then evaluate the model
   performance test set. We will use voting classifier to see it they improve over individual model.

 Model deployment: Best model will be deployed on server and prediction services will be provided
 as REST services. Any user can use rest api and can get realtime response.
